now Iran says that Israel will pay for
the assassination of hamas's top
political leader isma hania he was
killed in an air strike in tyan
thousands gathered in the Iranian
capital for a funeral honoring the
leader of the Palestinian party in
militant group Hamas hania was also the
chief negotiator in talks aimed at
reaching a ceasefire with Israel Iranian
supreme leader Ayatollah hman spoke at
the ceremony Iran holds Israel
responsible for the killing and said
they will make Israel regret the
move well Israel says it can now confirm
that it killed hamas's military leader
mohmad Muhammad di in an air strike in
Gaza last month the Israeli military
says dive was killed on the 13th of July
in a strike on the outskirts of hunis
Dave uh di is considered one of the
planners of the October attacks against
Israel last year Israel's military had
been hunting the extremely secretive
57-year-old for
decades DW's Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem told us
more well Muhammad Dave was the head of
the military Wing the alasan brigades in
Gaza he uh has was heading up that uh
the alasan brigades for some decades
couple of decades and with with the
organization ation for around about 30
years he's long been on Israel's Wanted
list and in fact in May kareim Khan the
chief prosecutor for the international
criminal court put him on a list of
Hamas leaders that uh he was applying to
have arrest warrants handed out to isma
Khan being another person who was on
that list as well as Yahya sinoa the
leader of Hamas in Gaza uh as I said he
was long on The Wanted list of Israel
and Israel made several attempts at his
life uh he was unsuccessful he remained
elusive until uh as we're now learning
on July 13th when he was targeted
alongside another senior Hamas figure
Rafa salame leader of Hamas forces in
Han unun uh now it was confirmed on the
day that salame had been killed but they
the Israeli military weren't 100%
certain uh that Dave also was killed in
that air strike they they thought that
it was Pro possible probable but that
they didn't have the intelligence they
are now saying they do have the
intelligence to confirm that he was
taken out in that air strike but it
should be said that uh some 90 other
people in Gaza were also uh killed in
that strike because it was in an area in
hanun near uh you know this area where
people had gone uh to shelter um so
Hamas has denied or before find before
today they certainly were denying that
Dave was killed in that attack but we
haven't heard from them uh in the
aftermath of this this latest
development assuming Dave
is dead how big of a blow would this be
to hamas's capabilities in
Gaza oh it's certainly a very big
symbolic and strategic blow to Hamas
Dave was a a very key figure and he
certainly played an important role on
the ground uh in Gaza he you know was
was certainly thought to have
coordinated many attacks against
Israelis and was seen as a mastermind
behind the October 7
attacks he was very close with the Hamas
leader Yaya Sina in Gaza and he was you
know had this almost heroic status as I
said he was a very elusive figure there
were only three known photographs of the
man and so you know he had a kind of a a
Godlike uh symbolism around him and so
it will be a very strategic and symbolic
loss for Hamas he had built up a lot of
expertise over the years he was
instrumental in uh building the the
underground tunnel Network and of course
also the
the bomb making program that Hamas have
you know the their capabilities when it
comes to to making bombs so he certainly
is going to be uh a big loss to uh the
network but you know these figures are
not Irreplaceable and we've seen that in
the past that that key figures uh have
been able to be replaced and Hamas is as
many say an ideology and this armed
struggle will not be over just because
uh muhamad Dave has been
killed so a blow to hamas's capabilities
nonetheless uh how was all this playing
out then for Israel's leader Benjamin
Netanyahu well these assassinations are
certainly being seen in Israel and
they're certainly being sold by Benjamin
Netanyahu and the government as winds uh
you we we heard Benjamin Netanyahu speak
about it in his address to the nation
yesterday saying these military gains uh
you know would not have been possible if
he had bowed to public pressure uh and
taken a hostage deal or taken some kind
of ceasefire Arrangement that he was
sticking to his plan that he's been
saying all along only the war will end
when total Victory uh is made when he's
able to to completely dismantle Hamas as
an organization and and as an
organization that can have any military
strength against Israel that is
something that they will you know
certainly trying to sell that the
assassination of these key leaders
although we have to remember that they
haven't claimed responsibility for the
assassination of the political leader
isma hania though it is widely regarded
that that that was also uh at the hands
of Israel they definitely being sold as
a wi but we'll just have to see what the
next steps are the retaliation from Iran
and its proxies just where Benjamin
Netanyahu will be standing in the weeks
to come Rebecca thanks for that update
our correspondent Rebecca ritters in
Jerusalem well the motivation for
killing ishma hania the Hamas leader may
stem from the group's October 7th Terror
attacks and in Israel but the animosity
towards hania stretches back much
further as we see in this
report Ismael hania greets Iran's new
president in what would be one of his
last
meetings just hours after attending the
president's inauguration he and his
bodyguard were killed in a strike on his
residents in
tan hania was the political face of
Hamas the militant islamist group that
carried out the October 7th Terror
attacks on
Israel Han had not lived in Gaza for
several years but ran Hamas from qat
where he lived in Exile he became the
Palestinian prime minister in 2006 and
continued to rise through hamas's ranks
eventually becoming its political Chief
in
2017 hamas's Gaza leader Yahya sinoa is
believed to have been The Mastermind of
the October 7th attacks while hania
represented Hamas internationally and
moved around the region for diplomatic
meetings he was a key player in
negotiations to stop the fighting in
Gaza some fear his killing will be a
major setback to achieving peace in the
region hania's death came just hours
after Israel said it killed senior
Hezbollah commander fuad shukur in
Beirut
the attack also killed at least one
woman and two children and wounded
dozens Israel says it targeted shukur in
retaliation for a rocket attack on a
soccer field in the Israeli occupied
Golan Heights that killed 12 children
and
teenagers Israel blamed Hezbollah and
warned the militant group it would pay a
heavy price shukur had been one of
hezbollah's leading military figure
since it was established by Iran's
revolutionary guard more than four
decades
ago after the Israel Hamas war broke out
on October 7th shukur was accused by
Israel of being behind many of the Drone
and missile attacks that Hezbollah
launched against
Israel shukur is the most senior
Hezbollah Commander to be killed since
2016 when Mustafa badredine the group's
military commander in Syria died in an
explosion in
Damascus global leaders fear the deaths
of two senior leaders of Israel's
greatest enemies when tensions were
already at Boiling Point could now
prompt an allout Regional
War let's bring in Abby melad here he's
a geopolitical intelligence analyst and
adviser on Arab Affairs to the former
prime minister
ahud welcome to the program ABI given
the assassination of the Hamas leader in
tyan How concerned should Israelis be
about retaliation from
Iran thank you for having me yes we
should be very concerned it's very
likely there is going to be a
retaliation um Iran has different tools
and means to carry out such retaliation
so it will be very reasonable to expect
it I want to ask you about Hezbollah in
a moment I know you've been very has
been studying them a lot but first let
me ask you as a Former Intelligence
officer what your thoughts are on why
isma Hana might have been targeted in
tyan well there are a couple of reasons
first Han was the head of Hamas
political Bureau he was though he was
portrayed in Western media as a kind of
like more of the moderate guy he was not
a moderate at all he was a bitter Enemy
of the State of Israel he was also in
charge of the among other things among
other people the planning of the October
7 massacre in Israel Israel has a policy
roughly speaking going back almost 50
years ago following the uh the massacre
of Israel is Sport some athletes in
Munich in Germany uh that Israel
basically has a policy that says such
people that are involved in such thing
of killing Israel is are basically
becoming a legitimate Target for
eliminations as for itself elimination
of people individual is not for itself a
strategic objective and most of the
times it doesn't really serve
strategically sometimes it has more of
symbolical um meaning operational tactic
meaning not beyond that but sometimes
when you take out figures like for
example Han it goes beyond beyond that
level now let's talk about Hezbollah in
neighboring Lebanon you know the group
well
what are you hearing about hezbollah's
likely military reaction to the killing
of its military leader
earlier well I would say that the hisbah
on the one hand of course are very
incentivized and motivated to retaliate
and probably will they do have however
some sort of a dilemma The Dilemma is
how to retaliate in a way that on the
one hand will convey a message that
actually uh rehabilitate their uh
smashed or damaged DET turn's capacities
or image following these two
assassinations that happen in a gap of
couple of hours how to do it in a way
that will restore that on the one hand
but on the other hand with not ins would
not spark a a dynamic that could result
in an whole out War because the basic
assessment or evaluation is that neither
of the sides in the end of the day has
real interest in such a whole out War
but one once you are igniting such a
process you don't really have the
ability to fully control that and
therefore there is a risk that it will
result in a dynamic that leading in the
end of the day to something you don't
want to be to start with so this is the
Dilemma of Iran and hisbah and they will
right now there is no doubt that they
are basically Consulting for a this way
what will be the right way for hisbah to
retaliate I will emphasize that in the
end of the day the final decision about
the the features the um the
characteristic of such a retaliation
will be decided in
Iran uh taking into consideration
different possible ramifications of
that well everyone of course is
wondering what will happen next uh
retaliation is seems to be factored into
most people's calculations but Hezbollah
is in Lebanon right next door to Israel
in the north across the border is a
military response from them more
concerning to Israel than retaliation by
Iran which is over 1,000 kmers
away in any case the retaliation is very
concerning we have to remember we are
looking at Iran and its proxies the
Hezbollah the yois the Iraqi Shiite
militias they all massively armed by the
best of the weapons the Iranians can
offer them and they offer them which
includes missiles and cruise missiles
and attacking drones we are familiar
with all those things and those things
are causing a significant damage we just
remember the Iranian attack on Saudi
Arabia a couple of years ago that
basically um smashed to some period of
time a part of the Iranian oil industry
so they can cause Israel a very very
significant damage regardless in the end
of the day of the distance obviously as
you mentioned accurately hisbah is
closer to Israel we are talking about
shorter range and and other aspects but
in the end of the day the damage could
be caused by attacking Israel's
strategic
infrastructure ports and and other
National infrastructure that damage
could be enormously significant so from
every possible perspective there is a
good reason for Israel to be concerned
and to be
prepared so given all that what can you
tell us about the factors that are
influencing decisions involving Israel's
military at this
point well I think that the over Maring
guiding line has to do with the with a
perspective that I would say is more
geostrategic regionally speaking look we
are looking at something that has been
brewing for many years and what we see
today or for a long period of time is
actually part of a long-term
sophisticated Iranian master plan to
eliminate the state of Israel in not
through the use of nonconventional
weapon but through the use of
conventional weapon and to that extent
the Iranian regime has a very very
effective tool in its service and these
are the different militias across the
Middle East that the Iranian regime
funds and arms and provide the military
know how and so on hisbah and Hamas and
Islamic J Shi Iraqi militias the htis
and so on and so on and this whole
master plan of the Mula regime in the
end of the day is supposed to be
simultaneously activated from different
Arenas to basically eliminate Israel in
a massive um military Blow from all
directions up up until that moment as
part of the Iranian regime a major
component of this program is to exhaust
Israel through a long-term process and
this is exactly what was Hamas and
Islamic Jihad role for the last couple
of decades Israel has been dealing with
Hamas and Islamic Jihad for the last 40
years and this is part of this long-term
Iranian master plan so what we saw is an
ongoing clearly process of exhausting
Israel through this mil rounds carried
out by the Iranian proxies targeting
deliberately knowingly and intentionally
Israel soft belly which are the
civilians and the whole purpose of that
is basically to bring Israel down to its
knees to the point where the massive
final blow would basically eliminate
Israel right now what we see in this
region is the reshuffle of the game
cards Israel basically sends the message
in the last couple of hours the 24 hours
Israel sent a message that says we are
now changing the ground rules and and we
now decide what's going to be the pace
and the trajectory basically Israel says
like we are not willing any longer to
take this story of exhaustion now it's
time for decision and one of the
potential possible outcome of that very
dramatic shift I would say is the
possibility that indeed the region will
find itself in an allout
ER War as an outcome of that of that
shift but this is something that didn't
happen because of the last 24 hours in
the end of the day we are looking at a
long-term process the aggression of the
Iranian regime was for too long
ignored H by the Western policy makers
they basically were kicking this can
down the road but in the end of the day
it was inevitable because if you don't
deal with a bully when he's little you
going to deal with the bully when he's
big and stronger and this is exactly
what we see today and this is exactly
when we hear today about a major concern
globally about the possibility of a
whole out war in the region which is
very
possible AI thank you very much for your
insights that was AI melad geopolitical
intelligence
analyst with these Hamas leader
assassinated in tan emotions in Iran and
elsewhere are running high in the region
so will emotions dictate what happens
next or will cooler heads prevail I put
that question to Middle East analyst
gido steinber from the German Institute
for international and security
Affairs no I do expect that emotions in
tan and in bayroot will have an
influence on on decision making
especially the fact that hania was
killed in the heart of the Iranian
Capital um on the occasion of the
swearing in of President
pesan will probably Force um the Iranian
leadership um to take some counter
measures possibly together with
Hezbollah in
Lebanon well Israel does now have a new
more moderate president he was just
sworn in on Tuesday does that matter in
this situation does he does he have a
say in what happens
next no the the president sits on the
National Security Council in tan but he
doesn't have major influence uh the
people who will decide was what is
happening next are uh first and foremost
the supreme leader Ali and his most
senior military and intelligence
advisers pesan is probably a voice that
is heard uh in among these people but
he's only among minor voice so we should
expect uh the the military uh includ
including Armen who was very uh close to
the military in in Iran um to take the
decision how do you see this playing out
G what are you expecting in the coming
days and
weeks well I do expect uh some military
attacks military terrorist attacks on
the part of Iran and or hisbah on on
Israel um many observers now talk about
a direct
Iranian attack on Israel with cruise
missiles ballistic missiles and drones
just like the one that we have seen uh
on the 13th of April I'm not that
convinced that Iran will choose this
option simply uh because uh the last the
last action was not not a major success
I'm uh more worried about attacks Again
by cruise missiles drones and ballistic
missiles from Lebanon if if his baa now
decides to escalate its attack attacks
perhaps start an attack on Military
targets a little bit further down south
close to hia for example uh then we
might see a major Israeli counter
reaction and the beginning of a war I
think we should expect more to come in
the next weeks